index.md, before:

# King of the Dead

_Set Collection via Deck-Building, utilizing a deck of 54 cards. 2-4 players._

## Materials

A deck of standard of 54 (52 + Jokers - aka French) is needed for 2 players. Two decks are needed for 3-4 players. A deck without Jokers could be used for a simpler game.

## Objective

Be the player with the most points at the end of the game. Points are totaled from cards scored (see: Scoring Points).

Cards are distinguished by color and number. Suit does not matter.

## Glossary of Terms

- **The Parade**: The row of cards which players can buy.
- **The Gate**: The deck of cards which fills The Parade.
- **The Well**: The discard pile for The Parade, as well as cards banished from players hands.
- **Run**: Any ordered sequence of three numbered cards from lowest to highest.
- **Royals**: Also referred to as "face cards"; Jacks, Queens, and Kings.

## Setup

1. **Deal starting cards**. Each person starts with Red Ace, 2, 3, 4 and Black A, 2, 3, 4. ( If playing with 3 players, deal a fourth player and set aside. )
2. **Build the Parade**. The Parade is the row of cards which the player can buy to add to their personal deck. Shuffle the remaining cards. Set the cards near the middle of the table - this is referred to as the Gate. Deal 1 face-down card (The Newcomer) next to The Gate. Next, add 2 face-up cards next to the face-down card per player. This will be The Parade. At the end of the Parade, designate an area as a public discard pile. This is known as The Well.

   *Example - 2 players:*

   ```-
   [ Gate ] [ Face down ] [ Face up ] [ Face up ] [ Face up ] [ Face up ] [ Well ]
   ```

3. **Set up play areas**. Each player sets up their play area by shuffling their starting cards and drawing 5. Place the remaining cards face-down in a draw pile, and designate a place for a personal discard pile.
4. **Determine first player**.

<!-- ? Starting draft? -->

## Gameplay

The game is played in rounds. During a round, player takes turns in clockwise order from the first player. At the end of each round, The Parade marches (See: End of Round) and first player shifts clockwise. It may be helpful to find an item to designate the first player.

### Player Turn

Each turn, play any number of cards from your hand by placing them face-up in your play area. When the player is done playing cards, all cards played and remaining cards in your hand go to their discard pile. Then, draw four more cards and end your turn. The player to the left starts their turn.

### Scoring points

Players will score points by completing a run (sequence) of 3 numbered cards (not royals or Joker). The run must be of the same color and start from lowest to highest. The highest card of the run is scored, placing it face-down in the player’s play area. The other cards of the run go into that player’s discard at the end of their turn. There is no benefit to playing a longer run than required. Playing a run is optional.

*It may be a bad idea to score runs with your starting deck at the beginning of the game - you’ll need those to get higher value cards!*

#### Special Rule: Wild Aces

A single Ace can count as a wild in a run, replacing any card except the highest card. Aces can serve as any color. For example, in the run 2 3 4, Ace could replace 2 or 3 but not 4. An Ace could also serve as a number below 2 in the run A 2 3. It cannot play the role of a card above 10. Each run can only contain one Ace.

#### Special Rule: Playing off of The Well

The top card of The Well can be used to complete a run of 3 cards. If the card on top of The Well is the highest card, score that card by placing it face-down in your score pile.

<!-- ? Powers to play off Parade? -->

### Buying Cards

Players can combine any number of same-colored numbered cards (2-10) to buy cards from the Parade. Purchased cards go into the player’s discard pile. Red cards buy black cards, and black cards buy red. Total the amount from the played number cards to purchase a Parade card.

Any number of cards can be purchased on a turn, however, a buying card’s value cannot be split to buy multiple cards. Cards from the Parade are purchased one at a time, and cards played to purchase that card are discarded before buying more cards. Any remaining balance does not hold over to the new transaction.

<!-- ? Should Ace just duplicate? Reducing complexity may not make it OP -->
An Ace can duplicate any other number card when using to buy with its value reduced by -1. For example, duplicating a 2 will be a value of 1, duplicating a 10 would value the Ace at 9.

#### Card Costs

- Aces cost 1
- Numbered cards cost the same as their number. Example: Player lays down a Black 3 and Black 4 to purchase a Red 7.
- Royal cards cost 10.
- The Newcomer costs 7 - buying it is a gamble! Any cards used for purchasing from the Parade are discarded to the player’s card immediately.

_Note: The Parade restocks at the end of a round. A player at the end of the round might have no cards to buy. Sorry._

### Jokers

When a single Joker appears in a Parade, the First player must take that Joker and put it on top of their draw pile. If a second Joker shows up in a Parade, the second player in the round must take the Joker and place it on top of their draw pile, if 3 or 4 Jokers, player 3 then 4 does the same. Fill any Jokers taken from The Parade with a new card from The Gate.

If a Joker would be discarded at any point during a player's turn, that player must remove the top card from their draw pile and banish it to The Well. Then, place the Joker in the discard pile of the player to their left. *(This includes the Jack's discard ability - explained in the next section.)*

*Jokers are meddlesome demons which cannot be played on their own. They could however, be leveraged to your advantage (see: Joker Powers).*

### Card Abilities

Some cards, or combinations of cards, grant special abilities to gain the upper hand.

#### Royal Cards

- **Jack** ~ Corrupt: Look at the top two cards of your draw pile. Discard 1. Put the other in your hand.
- **Queen** ~ Liturgy: Send any card from your hand to The Well. Draw two cards.
- **King** ~ Disinter: Take the card off of the top of The Well and place it in your hand.

#### Two of a Kind powers

Cards can yield abilities when played together. Unless stated otherwise, keep played cards in your play area until the end of the round, then discard.

- **Aces** ~ *Familiar*: Retain a card until you wish to use it. Place one of the Aces and any card from your hand face-up in the play area. Discard the other Ace at the end of your turn. The retained card can stay there indefinitely. To use the retained card, discard the Ace in the play area and return the retained card to your hand.
- **2’s** ~ *Summon*: Draw two cards.
- **3’s** ~ *Supplant*: Choose a face-up card in The Parade, then swap that card with a card in your hand.
- **4’s** ~ *Clamor*: Draw three cards. All other players draw a card.
- **5’s** ~ *Abscond*: Buy any face-up card in the Parade for free and place it in your hand.
- **6’s**~ *Beguile*: Buy the The Newcomer for free.
- **7’s** ~ *Accede*: Discard any number of cards. Draw that many cards.
<!-- TODO Change 7's Power -->
- **8’s** ~ *Remand*: Shuffle your discard pile face-down, then draw two. Return your discard pile face-up.s
<!-- TODO Change 8's Power -->
- **9’s** ~ *Resurrect*: Shuffle your discard into your draw pile. Draw three.
- **10’s** ~ *Damn*: Draw any two cards from your draw pile. Shuffle
- **Red Jacks** ~ *Scry*: Look at the next 4 cards in your draw pile. Discard any. Put back on top the draw pile in the same order.
- **Black Jacks** ~ *Foretell*: Look at the top 3 cards of your draw pile. You may discard 1. Put remaining cards back on top of your draw pile in any order you choose.
- **Red & Black Jack** ~ *Corrupt+*: Look at the top three cards of your draw pile. Discard 1. Put the rest in your hand.
- **Red Queens** ~ *Bestir*: Send any card from your draw pile to the well. Re-shuffle. Draw two cards. (Aces are wild) <!-- TODO Red Queens need to be more powerful -->
- **Black Queens** ~ *Decant*: Send any card from your discard pile to the well. You may buy a card of the same value or less and put it in your hand. Color restrictions do not apply. (Aces count as 1).
- **Red & Black Queen** ~ *Liturgy+*: Send any card from your hand or discard to The Well. Draw three cards.
- **Red Kings** ~ *Emendate*: Shuffle The Well face-down, then draw two cards. Return The Well to it's spot face-up. <!-- TODO Change King power -->
- **Black Kings** ~ *Sepulcher*: Swap any two cards in your discard with the top card of The Well.
- **Red & Black King** ~ *Disinter+*: Take any card in The Well and place it in your hand.

#### Three/Four of a kind (Deity Powers)

<!-- ? These have been mostly unused, consider removing. -->

- [*Three*]/[*Four*] **Jacks** ~ Manifest: Search your draw pile and select [*any 2 cards*]/[*any three cards*] to put into your hand. Reshuffle.
- [*Three*]/[*Four*] **Queens** ~ Consecrate: Send up to [*three cards*]/[*four cards*] from your hand or discard to The Well and draw that many cards from your draw pile.
- [*Three*]/[*Four*] **Kings** ~ Exhume: Take [*any 2 cards*]/[*any three cards*] from The Well and put it in your hand.

#### Joker Powers

The Jokers want to sow discord. Given the right companion, this can be used to your advantage.

Any Joker plus:

- **Ace** ~ *Cipher*: Nothing. Discard the Ace and the Joker.
- **Jack** ~ *Pillage*: Choose a player. Take one card of your choice from their discard, or two cards off of the top of their draw pile. Put the card(s) in your hand. Place the Joker in their discard pile.
- **Queen** ~ *Void*: All other players, in clockwise order, must discard a card of their choosing from their hand to The Well. Then, Pick one player. That player must must send a card of their choice from their discard to the well. Place the Joker in their discard pile.
- **King** ~ *Encumber*: Select any card in The Well. Put that card and the Joker in discard pile of another player.
- **Another Joker** ~ *Devilry*: Pick two players. They swap hands. Place one Joker in each of their discard piles.

### End of Round

At the end of the round, cards from The Parade fall into The Well. If two players, move two cards into The Well, if three players, three, or if four, then four.

Flip up The Newcomer face-up. Refill The Parade from The Gate. When The Gate has been depleted, shuffle The Well and place it face-down in the gate.

Move the "first player" clockwise and begin a new round.

## End of the Game

**For two players**, after The Well has been reshuffled **three times** and there are no more cards to fill the Parade, everyone takes on more round. Then the game ends.

**For three or four players**, after The Well has been reshuffled **twice** and there are no more cards to fill the Parade, everyone takes on more round. Then the game ends.

## Calculating Score

Tally the total from the face-down score. In the event of a tie, the player with fewer scored cards wins. If still tied, perform a seance and ask the dead who won.

___

##### Created from isolation 😷by [@joesadoski](https://twitter.com/joesadoski). 👏🏻 Wash your hands!

Commit message:

added Kyle to the footer

index.md, after:

# King of the Dead

_Set Collection via Deck-Building, utilizing a deck of 54 cards. 2-4 players._

## Materials

A deck of standard of 54 (52 + Jokers - aka French) is needed for 2 players. Two decks are needed for 3-4 players. A deck without Jokers could be used for a simpler game.

## Objective

Be the player with the most points at the end of the game. Points are totaled from cards scored (see: Scoring Points).

Cards are distinguished by color and number. Suit does not matter.

## Glossary of Terms

- **The Parade**: The row of cards which players can buy.
- **The Gate**: The deck of cards which fills The Parade.
- **The Well**: The discard pile for The Parade, as well as cards banished from players hands.
- **Run**: Any ordered sequence of three numbered cards from lowest to highest.
- **Royals**: Also referred to as "face cards"; Jacks, Queens, and Kings.

## Setup

1. **Deal starting cards**. Each person starts with Red Ace, 2, 3, 4 and Black A, 2, 3, 4. ( If playing with 3 players, deal a fourth player and set aside. )
2. **Build the Parade**. The Parade is the row of cards which the player can buy to add to their personal deck. Shuffle the remaining cards. Set the cards near the middle of the table - this is referred to as the Gate. Deal 1 face-down card (The Newcomer) next to The Gate. Next, add 2 face-up cards next to the face-down card per player. This will be The Parade. At the end of the Parade, designate an area as a public discard pile. This is known as The Well.

   *Example - 2 players:*

   ```-
   [ Gate ] [ Face down ] [ Face up ] [ Face up ] [ Face up ] [ Face up ] [ Well ]
   ```

3. **Set up play areas**. Each player sets up their play area by shuffling their starting cards and drawing 5. Place the remaining cards face-down in a draw pile, and designate a place for a personal discard pile.
4. **Determine first player**.

<!-- ? Starting draft? -->

## Gameplay

The game is played in rounds. During a round, player takes turns in clockwise order from the first player. At the end of each round, The Parade marches (See: End of Round) and first player shifts clockwise. It may be helpful to find an item to designate the first player.

### Player Turn

Each turn, play any number of cards from your hand by placing them face-up in your play area. When the player is done playing cards, all cards played and remaining cards in your hand go to their discard pile. Then, draw four more cards and end your turn. The player to the left starts their turn.

### Scoring points

Players will score points by completing a run (sequence) of 3 numbered cards (not royals or Joker). The run must be of the same color and start from lowest to highest. The highest card of the run is scored, placing it face-down in the player’s play area. The other cards of the run go into that player’s discard at the end of their turn. There is no benefit to playing a longer run than required. Playing a run is optional.

*It may be a bad idea to score runs with your starting deck at the beginning of the game - you’ll need those to get higher value cards!*

#### Special Rule: Wild Aces

A single Ace can count as a wild in a run, replacing any card except the highest card. Aces can serve as any color. For example, in the run 2 3 4, Ace could replace 2 or 3 but not 4. An Ace could also serve as a number below 2 in the run A 2 3. It cannot play the role of a card above 10. Each run can only contain one Ace.

#### Special Rule: Playing off of The Well

The top card of The Well can be used to complete a run of 3 cards. If the card on top of The Well is the highest card, score that card by placing it face-down in your score pile.

<!-- ? Powers to play off Parade? -->

### Buying Cards

Players can combine any number of same-colored numbered cards (2-10) to buy cards from the Parade. Purchased cards go into the player’s discard pile. Red cards buy black cards, and black cards buy red. Total the amount from the played number cards to purchase a Parade card.

Any number of cards can be purchased on a turn, however, a buying card’s value cannot be split to buy multiple cards. Cards from the Parade are purchased one at a time, and cards played to purchase that card are discarded before buying more cards. Any remaining balance does not hold over to the new transaction.

<!-- ? Should Ace just duplicate? Reducing complexity may not make it OP -->
An Ace can duplicate any other number card when using to buy with its value reduced by -1. For example, duplicating a 2 will be a value of 1, duplicating a 10 would value the Ace at 9.

#### Card Costs

- Aces cost 1
- Numbered cards cost the same as their number. Example: Player lays down a Black 3 and Black 4 to purchase a Red 7.
- Royal cards cost 10.
- The Newcomer costs 7 - buying it is a gamble! Any cards used for purchasing from the Parade are discarded to the player’s card immediately.

_Note: The Parade restocks at the end of a round. A player at the end of the round might have no cards to buy. Sorry._

### Jokers

When a single Joker appears in a Parade, the First player must take that Joker and put it on top of their draw pile. If a second Joker shows up in a Parade, the second player in the round must take the Joker and place it on top of their draw pile, if 3 or 4 Jokers, player 3 then 4 does the same. Fill any Jokers taken from The Parade with a new card from The Gate.

If a Joker would be discarded at any point during a player's turn, that player must remove the top card from their draw pile and banish it to The Well. Then, place the Joker in the discard pile of the player to their left. *(This includes the Jack's discard ability - explained in the next section.)*

*Jokers are meddlesome demons which cannot be played on their own. They could however, be leveraged to your advantage (see: Joker Powers).*

### Card Abilities

Some cards, or combinations of cards, grant special abilities to gain the upper hand.

#### Royal Cards

- **Jack** ~ Corrupt: Look at the top two cards of your draw pile. Discard 1. Put the other in your hand.
- **Queen** ~ Liturgy: Send any card from your hand to The Well. Draw two cards.
- **King** ~ Disinter: Take the card off of the top of The Well and place it in your hand.

#### Two of a Kind powers

Cards can yield abilities when played together. Unless stated otherwise, keep played cards in your play area until the end of the round, then discard.

- **Aces** ~ *Familiar*: Retain a card until you wish to use it. Place one of the Aces and any card from your hand face-up in the play area. Discard the other Ace at the end of your turn. The retained card can stay there indefinitely. To use the retained card, discard the Ace in the play area and return the retained card to your hand.
- **2’s** ~ *Summon*: Draw two cards.
- **3’s** ~ *Supplant*: Choose a face-up card in The Parade, then swap that card with a card in your hand.
- **4’s** ~ *Clamor*: Draw three cards. All other players draw a card.
- **5’s** ~ *Abscond*: Buy any face-up card in the Parade for free and place it in your hand.
- **6’s**~ *Beguile*: Buy the The Newcomer for free.
- **7’s** ~ *Accede*: Discard any number of cards. Draw that many cards.
<!-- TODO Change 7's Power -->
- **8’s** ~ *Remand*: Shuffle your discard pile face-down, then draw two. Return your discard pile face-up.s
<!-- TODO Change 8's Power -->
- **9’s** ~ *Resurrect*: Shuffle your discard into your draw pile. Draw three.
- **10’s** ~ *Damn*: Draw any two cards from your draw pile. Shuffle
- **Red Jacks** ~ *Scry*: Look at the next 4 cards in your draw pile. Discard any. Put back on top the draw pile in the same order.
- **Black Jacks** ~ *Foretell*: Look at the top 3 cards of your draw pile. You may discard 1. Put remaining cards back on top of your draw pile in any order you choose.
- **Red & Black Jack** ~ *Corrupt+*: Look at the top three cards of your draw pile. Discard 1. Put the rest in your hand.
- **Red Queens** ~ *Bestir*: Send any card from your draw pile to the well. Re-shuffle. Draw two cards. (Aces are wild) <!-- TODO Red Queens need to be more powerful -->
- **Black Queens** ~ *Decant*: Send any card from your discard pile to the well. You may buy a card of the same value or less and put it in your hand. Color restrictions do not apply. (Aces count as 1).
- **Red & Black Queen** ~ *Liturgy+*: Send any card from your hand or discard to The Well. Draw three cards.
- **Red Kings** ~ *Emendate*: Shuffle The Well face-down, then draw two cards. Return The Well to it's spot face-up. <!-- TODO Change King power -->
- **Black Kings** ~ *Sepulcher*: Swap any two cards in your discard with the top card of The Well.
- **Red & Black King** ~ *Disinter+*: Take any card in The Well and place it in your hand.

#### Three/Four of a kind (Deity Powers)

<!-- ? These have been mostly unused, consider removing. -->

- [*Three*]/[*Four*] **Jacks** ~ Manifest: Search your draw pile and select [*any 2 cards*]/[*any three cards*] to put into your hand. Reshuffle.
- [*Three*]/[*Four*] **Queens** ~ Consecrate: Send up to [*three cards*]/[*four cards*] from your hand or discard to The Well and draw that many cards from your draw pile.
- [*Three*]/[*Four*] **Kings** ~ Exhume: Take [*any 2 cards*]/[*any three cards*] from The Well and put it in your hand.

#### Joker Powers

The Jokers want to sow discord. Given the right companion, this can be used to your advantage.

Any Joker plus:

- **Ace** ~ *Cipher*: Nothing. Discard the Ace and the Joker.
- **Jack** ~ *Pillage*: Choose a player. Take one card of your choice from their discard, or two cards off of the top of their draw pile. Put the card(s) in your hand. Place the Joker in their discard pile.
- **Queen** ~ *Void*: All other players, in clockwise order, must discard a card of their choosing from their hand to The Well. Then, Pick one player. That player must must send a card of their choice from their discard to the well. Place the Joker in their discard pile.
- **King** ~ *Encumber*: Select any card in The Well. Put that card and the Joker in discard pile of another player.
- **Another Joker** ~ *Devilry*: Pick two players. They swap hands. Place one Joker in each of their discard piles.

### End of Round

At the end of the round, cards from The Parade fall into The Well. If two players, move two cards into The Well, if three players, three, or if four, then four.

Flip up The Newcomer face-up. Refill The Parade from The Gate. When The Gate has been depleted, shuffle The Well and place it face-down in the gate.

Move the "first player" clockwise and begin a new round.

## End of the Game

**For two players**, after The Well has been reshuffled **three times** and there are no more cards to fill the Parade, everyone takes on more round. Then the game ends.

**For three or four players**, after The Well has been reshuffled **twice** and there are no more cards to fill the Parade, everyone takes on more round. Then the game ends.

## Calculating Score

Tally the total from the face-down score. In the event of a tie, the player with fewer scored cards wins. If still tied, perform a seance and ask the dead who won.

___


##### Created from isolation 😷by [@joesadoski](https://twitter.com/joesadoski). 👏🏻 Wash your hands! Project to be continued by Kyle Walterbach
