King of the Dead.md, before:

# King of the Dead

_Set Collection via Deck-Building, utilizing a deck of 54 cards. 2-4 players._

## Materials

A deck of standard of 54 (52 + Jokers - aka French) is needed for 2 players. Two decks are needed for 3-4 players. A deck without Jokers could be used for a simpler game.

## Objective

Score the most points by the end of three Parade shuffles. Points are totaled from scored (face-down) cards.

_Note: Cards are distinguished by color and number. Suit does not matter._

## Setup

1. Deal starting cards. Each person starts with Red Ace, 2, 3, 4 and Black A, 2, 3, 4. ( If playing with 3 players, deal a fourth player and set aside. )
2. Build the Parade. The Parade is the row of cards which the player can buy to add to their personal deck. Shuffle the remaining cards. Set the cards near the middle of the table - this is referred to as the Gate. Deal out 1 face down card (The Newcomer) next to The Gate. Next, add 2 face-up cards next to the facedown card per player. This will be The Parade. At the end of the Parade, designate an area as a public discard pile. This is known as The Well.

   *Example:*

   ```-
   [ Gate ] [ Face down ] [ Face up ] [ Face up ] [ Face up ] [ Face up ] [ Well ]
   ```

3. Set up play areas. Each player sets up their play area by shuffling their starting cards and drawing 5. Place the remaining cards face-down in a draw pile, and designate a place for a personal discard.
4. Determine first player.

## Gameplay

The game is played in rounds. During a round, each player taking a turn and moving clockwise from the first player until all players have taken a turn. At the end of each round, The Parade marches (See: End of Round) and first player shifts clockwise. It may be useful to find an item to designate the first player.

### Player Turn

Each turn, the player may play any number of cards from their hand by placing them face up in their play area. All cards which are played are discarded to the player’s personal discard unless otherwise specified. When the player is done playing cards, all remaining cards in their hand go to the discard. The player then draws four more cards and ends their turn. The play move clockwise to the next payer.

### Scoring points

Players will score points by completing a run (sequence) of 3 numbered cards (not royals or Joker). The run must be of the same color and start from lowest to highest. The highest card of the run is scored, placing it face-down in the player’s play area. The other cards of the run go into that player’s discard. There is no benefit to playing a longer run than required. Note: Playing a run is optional.

*It may be a bad idea to score runs with your starting deck at the beginning of the game - you’ll need those to get higher value cards!*

#### Special Rule: Aces

A single Ace can count as a wild in a run provided they are the same color, replacing any card except the highest card. Aces can server as any color. For example, in the run 2 3 4, Ace could replace 2 or 3 but not 4. An Ace could also serve as a number below 2 in the run A 2 3. It cannot play the role of a card above 10. Each run can only have one Ace.

#### Special Rule: Playing off of The Well

The top card of The Well can be used to complete a run of 3 cards. The card on The Well can be scored.

### Buying Cards

Players can combine any number of cards of a certain color 1-10 to buy cards from the Parade. Purchased cards go into the player’s discard pile. Red cards can buy black cards, and black cards can buy red. Total the amount from the played number cards to purchase a Parade card.

An Ace can duplicate any other number card when using to buy with its value reduced by -1. For example, duplicating a 2 will be a value of 1 to buy with, duplicating a 10 would value at 9.

#### Card Costs

- Numbered cards cost the same as their number. Example: Player lays down a Black 3 and Black 4 to purchase a Red 7.
- Royal cards cost 10.
- The Newcomer costs 8 - buying it is a gamble! Any cards used for purchasing from the Parade are discarded to the player’s card immediately.

Any number of cards can be purchased on a turn, however, a card’s value cannot be split to buy multiple cards. Cards from the Parade are purchased one at a time, and cards played to purchase that card are discarded before buying the next. Any remaining balance does not hold over.

_Note: The Parade restocks at the end of a round. It may happen that a player at the end of the round has no cards to buy. Sorry._

### Jokers

When a single Joker appears in a Parade, the First player must take that Joker and put it on top of their draw pile. If a second Joker shows up in a Parade, the second player in the round must take the Joker and place it on top of their draw pile, if 3 or 4 Jokers, player 3 then 4 does the same.

If a Joker would be discarded, the player must remove the top card from their draw pile and put it in The Well, then place the Joker in the discard pile of the player to their left.

*Jokers are meddlesome souls which cannot be played on their own. They could however, be leveraged to your advantage (see Joker Powers).*

### Card Abilities

#### Royal Cards

- Jack | Corrupt: Look at the top two cards of your draw pile. Discard 1. Put the other in your hand.
- Queen | Liturgy: Send any card from your hand to The Well. Draw two cards.
- King | Disinter: Take the card off of the top of The Well and place it in your hand.

#### Two of a Kind powers

Cards can have other abilities when combined and played.

- Aces | Familiar: Retain a card until you want to use it. Place one Ace and another card in your hand face up in the play area. Discard the other Ace. When using the retained card, discard the Ace in the play area and return the retained card to your hand.
- 2’s | Summon: Draw two cards.
- 3’s | Decant: Use any one card in your hand to buy a card from the Parade at 150% value. Color restrictions for the purchasing card do not apply. Discard the card as you would when you normally buy cards.
- 4’s | Clamor: Draw three cards. All other players draw a card.
- 5’s | Abscond: Buy any face-up card in the Parade for free.
- 6’s | Beguile: Buy the The Newcomer for free.
- 7’s | Accede: Discard any number of cards. Draw that many cards.
- 8’s | Remand: Shuffle your discard pile face-down, then draw two. Return your discard pile face-up.
- 9’s | Resurrect: Shuffle your discard into your draw pile. Draw three.
- 10’s | Damn: Draw any two cards from your draw pile. Shuffle
- Red Jacks | Scry: Look at the next 4 cards in your draw pile. Discard any. Put back on top the draw pile in the same order.
- Black Jacks | Foretell: Look at the top 3 cards of your draw pile. You may discard 1. Put remaining cards back on top of your draw pile in any order you choose.
- Red & Black Jack | Corrupt+: Look at the top three cards of your draw pile. Discard 1. Put the rest in your hand.
- Red Queens | Bestir: Send any card from your draw pile to the well. Re-shuffle. Draw a card. (Aces are wild)
- Black Queens | Send any card from your discard to the well. You may buy a card of the same value or less. Color restrictions do not apply. (Aces count as 1).
- Red & Black Queen | Liturgy+: Send any card from your hand or discard to The Well. Draw three cards.
- Red Kings | Emendate: Shuffle The Well face-down, then draw two cards. Return The Well to it's spot face-up.
- Black Kings | Sepulcher: Swap any card in your discard with the top card of The Well.
- Red & Black King | Disinter+: Take the card off of the top of The Well and place it in your hand.

#### Three/Four of a kind (Deity Powers)

<!-- ? These have been mostly unused, consider removing. -->

- [Three]/[Four] Jacks | Manifest: Search your draw pile and select [any 2 cards]/[any three cards] to put into your hand. Reshuffle.
- [Three]/[Four] Queens | Consecrate: Send up to [three cards]/[four cards] from your hand or discard to The Well and draw that many cards from your draw pile.
- [Three]/[Four] Kings | Exhume: Take [any 2 card]/[any three cards] from The Well and put it in your hand.

#### Joker Powers

Any Joker plus:

- Ace | Cipher: Nothing. Discard the Ace and the Joker.
- Jack | Pillage: Choose a player. Take one card of your choice from their discard, or two cards off of the top of their draw pile. Put the card(s) in your hand. Place the Joker in their discard pile.
- Queen | All other players, in clockwise order, must discard a card of their choosing from their hand to The Well. Then, Pick one player. That player must must send a card of their choice from their discard to the well. Place the Joker in their discard pile.
- King |  Select any card in The Well. Put that card and the Joker in discard pile of another player.
- Another Joker | Devilry: Pick two players. They swap hands. Place one Joker in each of their discard piles.

### End of Round

Move the card nearest The Well into the well. Flip up The Newcomer face-up. Count the remaining cards in The Gate to make sure there are enough to fill the missing cards from the Parade. If so, move the cards down towards The Well and draw from The Gate until there are 4 face-up cards and 1 new face-down as The Newcomer.

If there are not enough cards to refill the empty spaces, fill what you can of the face-up cards (but not The Newcomer, yet). Shuffle The Well and place it face-down in the same spot. The Parade has now changed directions - The Well is now The Gate and vice-versa. Shift the cards down towards the new well, fill any face-up cards, then The Newcomer face-down.

Move the first player clockwise and begin a new round.

## End of the Game

**For two players**, after The Well has been reshuffled **three times** and there are no more cards to fill the Parade, everyone takes on more round. Then the game ends.

**For three or four players**, after The Well has been reshuffled **twice** and there are no more cards to fill the Parade, everyone takes on more round. Then the game ends.

## Calculating Score

Tally the total from the face-down score. In the event of a tie, the player with fewer scored cards wins. If still tied, perform a seance and ask the dead who won.

<!-- TODO End of round, # of cards that falls into well = # of players -->
<!-- TODO Clarification: If Single Jack to draw card results is discarding a Joker, Joker discard effect still occurs -->
<!-- TODO Red Queens need to be more powerfuls -->
<!-- TODO 5's buy directly to hand -->
<!-- TODO Aces cost 1 to purchase -->
<!-- TODO Black & Red King | Disinter+: Seek The Well take one card -->
<!-- TODO Change 3's Power -->
<!-- TODO Change 7's Power -->
<!-- TODO Change 8's Power -->
<!-- ? Starting draft -->
<!-- ? Powers to play off Parade -->

Commit message:

# of cards removed at EoR = # of players.

King of the Dead.md, after:

# King of the Dead

_Set Collection via Deck-Building, utilizing a deck of 54 cards. 2-4 players._

## Materials

A deck of standard of 54 (52 + Jokers - aka French) is needed for 2 players. Two decks are needed for 3-4 players. A deck without Jokers could be used for a simpler game.

## Objective

Score the most points by the end of three Parade shuffles. Points are totaled from scored (face-down) cards.

_Note: Cards are distinguished by color and number. Suit does not matter._

## Setup

1. Deal starting cards. Each person starts with Red Ace, 2, 3, 4 and Black A, 2, 3, 4. ( If playing with 3 players, deal a fourth player and set aside. )
2. Build the Parade. The Parade is the row of cards which the player can buy to add to their personal deck. Shuffle the remaining cards. Set the cards near the middle of the table - this is referred to as the Gate. Deal out 1 face down card (The Newcomer) next to The Gate. Next, add 2 face-up cards next to the facedown card per player. This will be The Parade. At the end of the Parade, designate an area as a public discard pile. This is known as The Well.

   *Example:*

   ```-
   [ Gate ] [ Face down ] [ Face up ] [ Face up ] [ Face up ] [ Face up ] [ Well ]
   ```

3. Set up play areas. Each player sets up their play area by shuffling their starting cards and drawing 5. Place the remaining cards face-down in a draw pile, and designate a place for a personal discard.
4. Determine first player.

## Gameplay

The game is played in rounds. During a round, each player taking a turn and moving clockwise from the first player until all players have taken a turn. At the end of each round, The Parade marches (See: End of Round) and first player shifts clockwise. It may be useful to find an item to designate the first player.

### Player Turn

Each turn, the player may play any number of cards from their hand by placing them face up in their play area. All cards which are played are discarded to the player’s personal discard unless otherwise specified. When the player is done playing cards, all remaining cards in their hand go to the discard. The player then draws four more cards and ends their turn. The play move clockwise to the next payer.

### Scoring points

Players will score points by completing a run (sequence) of 3 numbered cards (not royals or Joker). The run must be of the same color and start from lowest to highest. The highest card of the run is scored, placing it face-down in the player’s play area. The other cards of the run go into that player’s discard. There is no benefit to playing a longer run than required. Note: Playing a run is optional.

*It may be a bad idea to score runs with your starting deck at the beginning of the game - you’ll need those to get higher value cards!*

#### Special Rule: Aces

A single Ace can count as a wild in a run provided they are the same color, replacing any card except the highest card. Aces can server as any color. For example, in the run 2 3 4, Ace could replace 2 or 3 but not 4. An Ace could also serve as a number below 2 in the run A 2 3. It cannot play the role of a card above 10. Each run can only have one Ace.

#### Special Rule: Playing off of The Well

The top card of The Well can be used to complete a run of 3 cards. The card on The Well can be scored.

### Buying Cards

Players can combine any number of cards of a certain color 1-10 to buy cards from the Parade. Purchased cards go into the player’s discard pile. Red cards can buy black cards, and black cards can buy red. Total the amount from the played number cards to purchase a Parade card.

An Ace can duplicate any other number card when using to buy with its value reduced by -1. For example, duplicating a 2 will be a value of 1 to buy with, duplicating a 10 would value at 9.

#### Card Costs

- Numbered cards cost the same as their number. Example: Player lays down a Black 3 and Black 4 to purchase a Red 7.
- Royal cards cost 10.
- The Newcomer costs 8 - buying it is a gamble! Any cards used for purchasing from the Parade are discarded to the player’s card immediately.

Any number of cards can be purchased on a turn, however, a card’s value cannot be split to buy multiple cards. Cards from the Parade are purchased one at a time, and cards played to purchase that card are discarded before buying the next. Any remaining balance does not hold over.

_Note: The Parade restocks at the end of a round. It may happen that a player at the end of the round has no cards to buy. Sorry._

### Jokers

When a single Joker appears in a Parade, the First player must take that Joker and put it on top of their draw pile. If a second Joker shows up in a Parade, the second player in the round must take the Joker and place it on top of their draw pile, if 3 or 4 Jokers, player 3 then 4 does the same.

If a Joker would be discarded, the player must remove the top card from their draw pile and put it in The Well, then place the Joker in the discard pile of the player to their left.

*Jokers are meddlesome souls which cannot be played on their own. They could however, be leveraged to your advantage (see Joker Powers).*

### Card Abilities

#### Royal Cards

- Jack | Corrupt: Look at the top two cards of your draw pile. Discard 1. Put the other in your hand.
- Queen | Liturgy: Send any card from your hand to The Well. Draw two cards.
- King | Disinter: Take the card off of the top of The Well and place it in your hand.

#### Two of a Kind powers

Cards can have other abilities when combined and played.

- Aces | Familiar: Retain a card until you want to use it. Place one Ace and another card in your hand face up in the play area. Discard the other Ace. When using the retained card, discard the Ace in the play area and return the retained card to your hand.
- 2’s | Summon: Draw two cards.
- 3’s | Decant: Use any one card in your hand to buy a card from the Parade at 150% value. Color restrictions for the purchasing card do not apply. Discard the card as you would when you normally buy cards.
- 4’s | Clamor: Draw three cards. All other players draw a card.
- 5’s | Abscond: Buy any face-up card in the Parade for free.
- 6’s | Beguile: Buy the The Newcomer for free.
- 7’s | Accede: Discard any number of cards. Draw that many cards.
- 8’s | Remand: Shuffle your discard pile face-down, then draw two. Return your discard pile face-up.
- 9’s | Resurrect: Shuffle your discard into your draw pile. Draw three.
- 10’s | Damn: Draw any two cards from your draw pile. Shuffle
- Red Jacks | Scry: Look at the next 4 cards in your draw pile. Discard any. Put back on top the draw pile in the same order.
- Black Jacks | Foretell: Look at the top 3 cards of your draw pile. You may discard 1. Put remaining cards back on top of your draw pile in any order you choose.
- Red & Black Jack | Corrupt+: Look at the top three cards of your draw pile. Discard 1. Put the rest in your hand.
- Red Queens | Bestir: Send any card from your draw pile to the well. Re-shuffle. Draw a card. (Aces are wild)
- Black Queens | Send any card from your discard to the well. You may buy a card of the same value or less. Color restrictions do not apply. (Aces count as 1).
- Red & Black Queen | Liturgy+: Send any card from your hand or discard to The Well. Draw three cards.
- Red Kings | Emendate: Shuffle The Well face-down, then draw two cards. Return The Well to it's spot face-up.
- Black Kings | Sepulcher: Swap any card in your discard with the top card of The Well.
- Red & Black King | Disinter+: Take the card off of the top of The Well and place it in your hand.

#### Three/Four of a kind (Deity Powers)

<!-- ? These have been mostly unused, consider removing. -->

- [Three]/[Four] Jacks | Manifest: Search your draw pile and select [any 2 cards]/[any three cards] to put into your hand. Reshuffle.
- [Three]/[Four] Queens | Consecrate: Send up to [three cards]/[four cards] from your hand or discard to The Well and draw that many cards from your draw pile.
- [Three]/[Four] Kings | Exhume: Take [any 2 card]/[any three cards] from The Well and put it in your hand.

#### Joker Powers

Any Joker plus:

- Ace | Cipher: Nothing. Discard the Ace and the Joker.
- Jack | Pillage: Choose a player. Take one card of your choice from their discard, or two cards off of the top of their draw pile. Put the card(s) in your hand. Place the Joker in their discard pile.
- Queen | All other players, in clockwise order, must discard a card of their choosing from their hand to The Well. Then, Pick one player. That player must must send a card of their choice from their discard to the well. Place the Joker in their discard pile.
- King |  Select any card in The Well. Put that card and the Joker in discard pile of another player.
- Another Joker | Devilry: Pick two players. They swap hands. Place one Joker in each of their discard piles.

### End of Round

At the end of the round, cards from The Parade fall into The Well. If two players, move two cards into The Well, if three players, three, or if four, then four.

Flip up The Newcomer face-up. Count the remaining cards in The Gate to make sure there are enough to fill the missing cards from the Parade. If so, move the cards down towards The Well and draw from The Gate until there are 4 face-up cards and 1 new face-down as The Newcomer.

If there are not enough cards to refill the empty spaces, fill what you can of the face-up cards (but not The Newcomer, yet). Shuffle The Well and place it face-down in the same spot. The Parade has now changed directions - The Well is now The Gate and vice-versa. Shift the cards down towards the new well, fill any face-up cards, then The Newcomer face-down.

Move the first player clockwise and begin a new round.

## End of the Game

**For two players**, after The Well has been reshuffled **three times** and there are no more cards to fill the Parade, everyone takes on more round. Then the game ends.

**For three or four players**, after The Well has been reshuffled **twice** and there are no more cards to fill the Parade, everyone takes on more round. Then the game ends.

## Calculating Score

Tally the total from the face-down score. In the event of a tie, the player with fewer scored cards wins. If still tied, perform a seance and ask the dead who won.

<!-- TODO Clarification: If Single Jack to draw card results is discarding a Joker, Joker discard effect still occurs -->
<!-- TODO Red Queens need to be more powerfuls -->
<!-- TODO 5's buy directly to hand -->
<!-- TODO Aces cost 1 to purchase -->
<!-- TODO Black & Red King | Disinter+: Seek The Well take one card -->
<!-- TODO Change 3's Power -->
<!-- TODO Change 7's Power -->
<!-- TODO Change 8's Power -->
<!-- ? Starting draft -->
<!-- ? Powers to play off Parade -->
